# Swift Package Collection Generator

A **package collection** ([SE-0291](https://github.com/apple/swift-evolution/blob/main/proposals/0291-package-collections.md))
is a curated list of packages and associated metadata which makes it easier to discover an existing package for a particular use
case. SwiftPM will allow users to subscribe to package collections and make their contents accessible to any clients of libSwiftPM.

This repository provides a set of Swift packages and tooling for the generation and consumption of package collections.

Swift toolchain version 5.4 or greater is required.

#### Branches

The `main` branch depends on SwiftPM's `main` branch and may be unstable. It is recommended to use versioned branches such as `5.5`, which depend on the corresponding SwiftPM's `release/<version>` branch, instead.


## Installation

Currently, the package collection generator is a standalone tool that's not integrated with the Swift toolchain. To use it from the command line, first build the project from source by cloning the repository and running the following from the root directory:

```zsh
swift build --configuration release
```

Then, either run the final executables directly (e.g., `.build/release/package-collection-generate`) or install them on your system path:

```zsh
install .build/release/package-collection-generate /usr/local/bin/package-collection-generate
install .build/release/package-collection-diff /usr/local/bin/package-collection-diff
install .build/release/package-collection-sign /usr/local/bin/package-collection-sign
install .build/release/package-collection-validate /usr/local/bin/package-collection-validate
```

Finally, another way to run the tool is via `swift run`, which builds and runs the specified executable. For example:

```zsh
swift run package-collection-generate
```

## Package Collection Format

Package collections can be created and published by anyone. To make sure SwiftPM can consume
them, all package collections must adhere to the same format. See the [v1 format](PackageCollectionFormats/v1.md)
for details.

## Generating a Package Collection

[`package-collection-generate`](Sources/PackageCollectionGenerator/README.md) is a Swift
command-line tool that helps generate package collections.

## Validating a Package Collection

[`package-collection-validate`](Sources/PackageCollectionValidator/README.md) is a Swift
command-line tool that validates package collections against the defined format.
- This should be run against the final output generated by the `package-collection-generate` command.

## Comparing Package Collections

[`package-collection-diff`](Sources/PackageCollectionDiff/README.md) is a Swift
command-line tool that compares two package collections to determine if they are different from each other.

## Contributing to Swift Package Collection Generator 

Contributions to this repo are welcomed and encouraged! Please see the
[Contributing to Swift guide](https://swift.org/contributing/).

Before submitting the pull request, please make sure you have [tested your
 changes](https://github.com/apple/swift/blob/main/docs/ContinuousIntegration.md)
 and that they follow the Swift project [guidelines for contributing
 code](https://swift.org/contributing/#contributing-code).

To be a truly great community, [Swift.org](https://swift.org/) needs to welcome
developers from all walks of life, with different backgrounds, and with a wide
range of experience. A diverse and friendly community will have more great
ideas, more unique perspectives, and produce more great code. We will work
diligently to make the Swift community welcoming to everyone.

To give clarity of what is expected of our members, Swift has adopted the
code of conduct defined by the Contributor Covenant. This document is used
across many open source communities, and we think it articulates our values
well. For more, see the [Code of Conduct](https://swift.org/code-of-conduct/).
